All right so now we're going to handle the case of deleting to children and because we have a recursive
method it's easy to do it's actually longer to explain what we're doing than it is to implement it.
So let's add case 3.
The love child is not we handle it here.
If the right child is not we've handled it here.
If both of these conditions fail that means that we have a node with two children and so down here we're
going to handle that case so Case 3 node to delete has 2 children.
And of course because we return in both of these blocks we won't make it down here unless we haven't
returned from the method yet.
And so what do we want to do.
We want to do what we discussed in the slides we want to find the minimum value in the right subtree
and we can do that just by calling them in math.
That's why I wanted the main method to just return an int.
Here's the main method down here.
And so what we're going to do is we're going to say subtree route.
Remember at this point subtree route is the route that we want to delete.
And so what we want to do is we want to replace the value in the subtree root node with the smallest
value from the right subtree.
Because if we replace it with the smallest value from the right subtree we know that everything remaining
in the right subtree will be greater than the subtree root.
And so the characteristic of the binary search tree is preserved.
And so we're not actually going to rewire any nodes.
We're not going to physically take the replacement node and move it in the tree.
Instead we're just going to set the data of the existing node to the value of the replacement node and
then we're going to delete the replacement node.
And so we're going to say a subtree root Daut set data and we want to set it to the minimum value in
the right subtree so we're going to say stub tree root dot get right child Doughton And so this finds
us the minimum value in the right subtree.
And we're going to replace the value of the node we're deleting with that value and then we have to
delete the replacement node.
So how are we going to do that.
Well we're going to use our delete method.
I mean we know the root of the tree that we want to search for the value we have it right here.
It's actually the tree root get right child and we know the value we want to delete.
It's now the subtree root don't get data.
And so all we have to do is say subtree root dot set bright child and we're going to call our delete
method that should be of tree root root and we're going to call our delete method and we're going to
pass it our subtree root Daut get right child and the value we want to delete is subtree root Daut get
data
replace the value in the subtree root node with the smallest value from the right subtree and then delete
the node that has the smallest value in the rights of tree because obviously conceptually what we're
doing is we're moving the node with the smallest value in the right subtree where we're moving it to
the root of this subtree.
And so we need to delete it from its old position.
And so what we're doing here is we're not actually physically moving the node we're just replacing the
value with the minimum value and then we need to delete the node that contains that minimum value.
And we're just going to do that by calling our delete method.
And so we're going to replace the right child of the node that was the deleted node.
We didn't physically delete it of course but we're going to replace it's right child.
Now if this subtree has a lot of levels to it then this will end up being a redundant replacement.
But if we have a situation where the node that is the smallest value is the immediate child and this
will this will actually result in the right child being set to something new.
And that's it.
That's all we need to do to handle the case of two children.
And so now that we have a method that's handling all the cases let's go to the main method and try this
out.
I'm going to comment these out and I'm actually going to bring back these two lines so that we can see
what the tree looks like before we do any deletions.
And let's say inte tree dropped delete and let's do the cases he went through in the slide so I think
we deleted 15 and then in-tree you delete.
And I think we did 20 did we do twenty or twenty seven let's do twenty seven.
I can't remember if that's what we did but let's do it anyway.
And then delete the root.
So we'll delete 25.
And in fact let's do these separately so that we can we can see the results of each delete.
So I'm going to copy these two lines.
And so the first note we're going to try deleting is 15 and we know from the slides that 15 has one
child 17.
So let's run.
So that will be case 1.
So let's run this and we'll see that before the deletion.
We have 15 17:20 etc. and after the deletion 15 is gone and are in order traversal is still working
properly still printing out the numbers in ascending order.
So that's the case 1.
Let's delete 17.
So let's change this to 17 because that would be case 0 we know 17 is a leaf.
Let's run that.
And 17 is gone so we have 15 17:20 before the deletion and now we have 15 20 22 etc and everything looks
ok so for the case of two children while we know the route has two children so by by root so root is
25.
Let's run and 25 is gone.
So we've got 15 17 20 22 25 before the deletion 15 17 20 22 26 after that deletion and everything looks
good so it looks like our three cases are working.
Let's try it 8 8 8 just to make sure that that one's working and hopefully our tree won't fall apart.
And you can see that there's no deletions and we're not getting any nasty exceptions so if we try to
delete something that's not in a tree it's essentially a no op.
And so that's delete.
It turns out that it's longer to explain case to you than it is to implement it when we're using recursion.
If we were to use an iterative implementation the code for deleting a node with two children is actually
goes from two lines of code to 30 lines of code so that's it for delete.
I'll see you in the next video.